# CSCI1100-Lab-4-Images-and-Modules-solved

Download Here: [CSCI1100 Lab 4 — Images and Modules solved](https://jarviscodinghub.com/assignment/lab-4-images-and-modules-solution/)

For Custom/Original Work email jarviscodinghub@gmail.com/whatsapp +1(541)423-7793

This lab explores the use of images and modules. We strongly urge you to reference the Lecture 7 notes from last Thursday’s class: https://www.cs.rpi.edu/academics/courses/fall16/cs1/lecture_notes/lec07_modules_images. html You can also ﬁnd more details on all image functions at: https://pillow.readthedocs.org/en/latest/handbook/tutorial.html In this lab, you have two mandatory checkpoints that everyone must complete. For the third checkpoint, we will give you a couple of options. You must complete at least one of these, but you are welcome to try all of them. We provide a module called panoramio.py which will be used in one of the possible checkpoint 3 options. This is a good exercise to use an external module as part of your code. Before you start, we recommend that you verify your pillow installation. Open your Wing IDE and go to your python shell pane. Enter:
from PIL import Image im = Image.new(‘RGB’, (200,200))
If you get any errors, it is likely that you did not get pillow properly installed during Lab 0. Please visit: https://www.cs.rpi.edu/academics/courses/fall16/cs1/python_environment.html, search for conda install pillow, and follow the directions provided.
Checkpoint 1: Two by two wallpaper
To start this part, ﬁrst download the lab04files.zip ﬁle from Piazza. The ﬁle contains many images along with the ﬁle panoramio.py and some additional code to test and verify the panorama module. Unzip this folder in your Dropbox folder for Lab4. For simplicity, make sure that your programs are saved in the same directory as these images before you try to execute it. Otherwise, you will get a File Not Found error when trying to open the images. In this ﬁrst part of the lab, you are going to create two by two a wallpaper using any four of the images. We recommend images titled ‘ca.jpg’,’im.jpg’, ‘hk.jpg’,’bw.jpg’, but you can use any image you wish. For this lab, you are going to hard code the names of the images into your program. Open a new ﬁle and save it out as check1.py. Next, create a 512×512 blank document. Then, open each image, resize it to size 256×256 and paste them into this new image to form a 2×2 wallpaper. All functions to do this are illustrated in the examples in the Lecture 7 notes. And, remember, the paste function modiﬁes an image but does not return anything. When done, call the show() function to check that the wallpaper looks correct. You will see that the images are distorted because the original images are not square and the resize does not preserve
the aspect ratio. We will ﬁx this issue in for Checkpoint 2. For your convenience, here are a few image functions that might help you:
from PIL import Image ##must import Image first to be able to use it im = Image.new(mode, size, color) # use mode ‘RGB’, color ‘white’ im = im.resize((width,height)) # resize to the given width/height passed as a tuple im.paste(pasted_image, (x,y)) # (x,y) coordinates of upper left corner as a tuple im.save(filename) im.show()
To complete Checkpoint 1, show a TA or a Mentor your code and the output of your program.
Checkpoint 2: Image correction
To start this part, you are going to create a new ﬁle called check2_helper.py and create a function in it called make_square. Your function takes as an argument an image object, crops it to make it square and returns the resulting image. Remember to import Image in your ﬁle. In your function, you will check the size of the image and crop some part of it to make it into a square image. If the image is wider than longer (horizontal), then you must crop it along the x-axis. If the image is longer than wider (vertical), then you must crop it along the y-axis. Always start from the top left corner. Check the course notes for ﬁnding the size of an image and cropping. Remember that the crop function returns a new image. Now write some simple code to use this function to make one of the images from ﬁrst checkpoint square and show. We recommend you try this with some of the images titled inc* as well to see if it works for horizontal images as well as vertical ones. Here is how example test code should look:
im = Image.open(‘1.jpg’) imsquare = make_square(im) imsquare.show()
You see that your function does not open an image, but takes an image as input argument, and returns a new image. Once you are convinced that your function works, leave nothing in the ﬁle but the function. Copy your solution from checkpoint 1 to a new ﬁle called check2.py. Modify your code so that:
• You now import your own module check2_helper.py • You use your own function from this module to make each image in the wallpaper square before resizing them.
To complete Checkpoint 2, show a TA or a Mentor your code and the output of your program. We will check that you are calling your module correctly, and that your program has correct structure.
2
Checkpoint 3 (option 1): Use an external source for images
Instead of using the ﬁles given to you, you can use external sources. To help with this, we have written a module called panoramio.py that ﬁnds images taken at a speciﬁc address (using images from Google maps). The module has a few functions that will be useful to you in this part:
import panoramio as pan urls = pan.getPhotos(‘Eiffel Paris France’,5) # Return URLs for 5 pictures of Eiffel Tower as a tuple
im = pan.openphoto(urls[0]) # Return an image object for the first image URL im.show() ## view the image
The function getPhotos() will take an address and the number of desired images (5 in the above example) as arugments. It will ﬁnd all photos near the given address (up to the given number), and return a list of URLs for these images. There may be no photos at a given address, especially if your address is not understood by the program. In this case, you will get an empty list. ( Important Note: We have not learned lists, but we are about to. For this problem you can treat a list just like you would a tuple. One thing we have not told you, though, is that you can get the length of a list or a tuple using the len function, just like you would a string.) For each photo, the URL is a string like this: +u’https://mw2.google.com/mw-panoramio/photos/medium/59461095.jpg’+ Don’t worry about the u preﬁx, it just means the string is encoded in Unicode. It should not matter to you. To open an image from a URL, we use the openphoto method from panoramio.py. It works similarly to Image.open() but for URLs rather than local ﬁles. Its use is deﬁned in the box above. To see how this works, open up the ﬁle test_panoramio.py, look at it, and run it. Were you able to predict what was going to happen? Your task now in this checkpoint is straightforward:
• Save your check2 program out as check3_1.py. • In check3_1.py, write code to ask the user for an address using input and ﬁnd 4 images at this address using panoramio. • If the returned list has at least 4 images, then construct the checkpoint 2 wallpaper using these images and show the result. • Otherwise, tell the user that you could not ﬁnd suﬃcient number of pictures.
To complete Checkpoint 3, show a TA or a Mentor your code and the output of your program.
Checkpoint 3 (option 2): A diﬀerent layout for wallpaper
Here is a bit of challenge for you. We will change the wallpaper layout so that you put 6 images in a line (using images named 1.jpg,..,6.jpg), alternating the vertical location as shown in the ﬁgure below. Each white box is an image.
3
To accomplish this, save your check2.py ﬁle into check3_2.py. Then:
• You will need to resize the images (no cropping) proportional to their original size so that their height is 256. • Paste them in a wallpaper of size 1000, 360 (the ﬁrst image starts at (31,20)). • Images should have 10 pixels in between along the horizontal axis, and move up and down 40 pixels along the vertical axis.
If you do this, I promise you will get a cool looking wallpaper! To complete Checkpoint 3, show a TA or a Mentor your code and the output of your program
